So we finished the previous video with a
mini challenge to investigate the effect
that the various scale type settings
have on our image. Now the website that
I'm going to show you now the link is in
the resources section, is that in this
has a very good description of the
different scale types you know from the
top of the drop down rather than the
alphabetical documentation first thing
we've got none and that's fairly
straightforward it returns the image to
its default state just as it was just
how it was when we first dropped it on
there but metrics is the tricky one now
it uses a metrics to scale the image but
you can't to find a metrics here you
have to do it in code so it's used to
allow the image to be resized and code
when the user pinches it in or out for
example. Now Phoenix y what we'll do is
we'll just go back to android studio now
while we're talking about that so next
one now fit X Y, well that sets up things
have the images scoured in both
directions independently so that it'll
be stretched vertically in this case so
that it fits the current size of the
image view widget so the aspect ratio
won't be maintained so the ball in the
photo doesn't remain circular so let's
have a go at just doing some of these
now sort of chains up to Phoenix Y and
you can see how that was stretched and
the ball doesn't remain circular now at
the size we'll be using here though you
can see that it resembles a rugby ball
or a football on its end now fit
start, so we click on that the aspect
ratio is maintained so both axes are
stretched or shrunk by the same amount
and the image is positioned at the top
left of the image view. So image
sorry fit centers the next one by
clicking on that very much like fit
start but the resulting image is
centered in the image view and fit end
similarly like fit start but the image
is lined up at the bottom right of the
image view we can try center. Now with
center of the image is centered in the
image view but it's not scaled, so the
edges are cropped off if the image is
too large, so we get the full height of
the image because the image view is 3/8
4 by 4 20
but we lose part of the image off the
left and right edges. Let's try the next
one center crop. Now this scales the
image maintaining the aspect ratio but
we'll make sure that at least one
dimension is at least equal to the
corresponding dimension of the image
view. Now because the height of this
image is the same as the height of the
image view it behaves the same as center
and if the image was a lot narrower it
would have been scaled up and would lose
part of the image at the top and bottom
center inside the image is scaled
maintaining the aspect ratio but no side
will be scaled larger than the image
view so that results in the image being
shrunk so that's about as wide as the
image view so a lot less high with our
image it's the same as fit center but
with an image smaller than the image
view fit center will expand the image to
fill in at least one direction where a
center inside would leave space around
the image. Now if you want to experiment
further create images that are smaller
in both directions and smaller and only
one dimension. Now the third case is
larger in only one dimension and that's
what we have here, there's a fourth case
which is larger in both dimensions and
we can test that without creating a new
image by making the container image view
smaller so let's make it 200 by 200 DP
I'm entering 200 DP in the layout from
width and the same for height 200 DP
that's the course if you want to
experiment with that and once again
looking at two metrics well that's a
little bit boring we can't really do
much with that here and that's because
the metric itself hasn't been defined it
does no scaling so what we can see here
is a 200 square view of the top-left
corner of the image clicking on it like
so and again Phoenix Y shrinks the image
to fit compressing both sides so fin X Y
it compresses both sides to the size of
the image view without caring if it
distorts the image so the ball is no
longer round as you can see here in fits
start fit center and fit end compress
the image to fit and position it in the
top middle or bottom of the image view.
Now the proportions of the original are
maintained
so it won't look distorted we can't see
the entire image in other words, so I
just choose one of those if it starts
you can see that's the case. Now center
just shows the middle of the picture
everything else is cropped off there's
no scaling so we got a sort of 200
square viewport onto the image and sent
a crop again if I select that tools the
imagery was best at Ken but we actually
did lose part on the left and right
edges because we had to crop it off so
the 480 height has been shrunk down to
200 and the 640 width has been shrunk
down by the same percentage leaving it
wider than 200. Now with the sizes that
we're using center inside now behaves
the same as if it's center, you can see
that so with a bit of experimentation
and checking the documentation we've
managed to work out what those dcout
type settings do and the Android
documentation is normally pretty good as
well as reference documentation they've
got tutorial documentation and guides
that tend to explain things from a more
practical angle. Alright so now that
we've seen that I want to take a moment
to demonstrate something that can cause
confusion, but it's not going to cause
confusion here in fact because we're
using an image view. Now an image view is
a very visual component so you'll
understand what's going on straight away
as long as you remember this and apply
it when we start working with text
widgets rather than images everything
will make perfect sense, so the first
thing we need to do is change our scale
type attribute back to fit start so
let's do that, now looking at the
blueprint the image view is perfectly
centered on the screen now because we've
used fit start the image has been
scaled to fit and appears more towards
the top edge of the image view widget
obviously in the designer. Now if we run
the app again
the image should appear more towards the
top of the screen, so let's just see what
happens. Now it's roughly centered but
there's definitely more white space
below the image than above and that's
not really surprising but it does
demonstrate that there's really two
different things that work here the
first is the positioning of the widget
on the screen centered vertically and
horizontally in this case but the second
is the positioning of the widgets
contents towards the top center of the
widget here so although our widget is
centered vertically the images in
appearing in the center of the screen is
closer to the top of the screen than the
bottom. Now where it can get confusing is
when dealing with text if the text
doesn't fill its widget and won't appear
centered even if the widget itself is
centered and it's slightly worse with
text because text itself can be aligned
to the left or right as well as top or
bottom, so remember that there's two
different things that work here
the position of the widget and the
position of the contents within the
widget. Now we're going to be seeing that
when we start using text widgets but I
wanted to clear up any possible
confusion here when it's very much easy
to understand what's happening and after
what we've just covered you should be
able to work out how to center the image
vertically in the image view. Alright
so let's finish the video here, in the
next video we're going to go back to
Android studio and just have a closer
look at that view inspector, so I'll see
you in the next video.